adulation
adulation: Adulation is praise and admiration for someone that includes more than they deserve, usually for the purposes of flattery.

ambient
ambient: Ambient sound, light, and temperature are those parts of the environment that surround you.

chaff
chaff: Chaff is the husks of grain separated from the edible plant; it can also be useless matter in general that is cast aside.

chagrin
chagrin: When you experience chagrin, you feel embarrassed or annoyed because you have failed at something or have been let down in some way.

covet
covet: If you covet something that someone else has, you have a strong desire to have it for yourself.

divulge
divulge: To divulge something is to reveal information that was once private or secret.

exacting
exacting: Someone who is exacting expects others to work very hard and carefully.

farce
farce: A situation or event is a farce if it is very badly organized and consequently unsuccessful—or so silly and ridiculous that you cannot take it seriously.

garish
garish: Something garish is very bright and colorful but in an ugly, cheap, and showy way.

gubernatorial
gubernatorial: A gubernatorial office is the position that a governor of a state holds.

hiatus
hiatus: A hiatus is a period of time when there is a break or interruption in some activity.

litigate
litigate: When you litigate, you go before a court in order to bring forth a lawsuit or voice another serious concern you have.

livid
livid: If you are livid, you are extremely angry.

maverick
maverick: A maverick individual does not follow general opinions of society as a whole; rather, they think for themself and often strike out on their own.

misnomer
misnomer: A misnomer is a name given to someone or something that doesn't quite fit or is inaccurate in some obvious way.

nettle
nettle: If you nettle someone, you irritate or annoy them.

prowess
prowess: If you have prowess, you possess considerable skill or ability in something.

rescind
rescind: When someone in power rescinds a law or agreement, they officially end it and state that it is no longer valid.

torsion
torsion: Torsion is the strain produced on a body by twisting it.

vassal
vassal: In the Middle Ages, a vassal was a worker who served a lord in exchange for land to live upon; today you are a vassal if you serve another and are largely controlled by them.

wallow
wallow: To wallow in something is to immerse, roll, or absorb oneself lazily in it; wallow can also refer to being very involved in a negative feeling, such as wallowing in misery or self-pity.

abandon
abandon: When you act with abandon, you give in to the impulse of the moment and behave in a wild, uncontrolled way.

abate
abate: When something bad or painful abates, it becomes less strong or severe.

abdicate
abdicate: If someone abdicates, they give up their responsibility for something, such as a king's transfer of power when he gives up his throne.

aberrant
aberrant: When something is aberrant, it is unusual, not socially acceptable, or a departure from the norm.

abet
abet: When you abet someone, you urge, encourage, or help them to commit a criminal or illegal act.

abhor
abhor: If you abhor something, you dislike it very much, usually because you think it's immoral.

abject
abject: The word abject emphasizes a very bad situation or quality, thereby making it even worse.

abominate
abominate: If you abominate something, you hate it because you think it is extremely wrong and unacceptable.

abortive
abortive: An abortive attempt or action is cut short before it is finished; hence, it is unsuccessful.

abrasive
abrasive: Someone who has an abrasive manner is unkind and rude, wearing away at you in an irritating fashion.

abscond
abscond: When you abscond, you leave suddenly from a place that has imprisoned or persecuted you, or you leave from a place with something that doesn't belong to you.

absolve
absolve: When you absolve someone, you publicly and formally say that they are not guilty or responsible for any wrongdoing.

abstruse
abstruse: You can describe something as abstruse if you find it highly complicated and difficult to understand.

abysmal
abysmal: A situation or condition that is abysmal is extremely bad or of wretched quality.

acclimate
acclimate: When you acclimate yourself to a new situation or environment, you adapt and get used to it.

accost
accost: You accost a stranger when you move towards them and speak in an unpleasant or threatening way.

accrue
accrue: When something accrues, such as interest on money, it gradually increases or builds up over time.

acquiesce
acquiesce: If you acquiesce to something, you allow it to happen by doing what someone wants without putting up a struggle or voicing your own concerns.

acrid
acrid: An acrid smell or taste is strong, unpleasant, and stings your nose or throat.

acuity
acuity: Acuity is sharpness or clearness of vision, hearing, or thought.

addendum
addendum: An addendum is an additional section added to the end of a book, document, or speech that gives more information.

adjudicate
adjudicate: If you adjudicate a competition or dispute, you officially decide who is right or what should be done concerning any difficulties that may arise.

adjunct
adjunct: An adjunct is something that is added to or joined to something else that is larger or more important.

admonish
admonish: When you admonish someone, you tell them gently but with seriousness that they have done something wrong; you usually caution and advise them not to do it again.

adulterate
adulterate: If you adulterate something, you lessen its quality by adding inferior ingredients or elements to it.

advocate
advocate: When you advocate a plan or action, you publicly push for implementing it.

affable
affable: An affable person is pleasant, friendly, and easy to talk to.

affluence
affluence: Affluence is the state of having a lot of money and many possessions, granting one a high economic standard of living.

aggregate
aggregate: An aggregate is the final or sum total after many different amounts or scores have been added together.

agnostic
agnostic: An agnostic is a person who believes that it is impossible to know conclusively whether a supreme deity exists; they can be doubtful about other things as well.

agrarian
agrarian: The adjective agrarian is used to describe something that is related to farmland or the economy that is concerned with agriculture.

allay
allay: You allay someone's fear or concern by making them feel less afraid or worried.

allude
allude: When you allude to something or someone, often events or characters from literature or history, you refer to them in an indirect way.

aloof
aloof: When you act in an aloof fashion towards others, you purposely do not participate in activities with them; instead, you remain distant and detached.

altruistic
altruistic: If your behavior or manner is altruistic, you show you care more about other people and their interests than you care about yourself.

amatory
amatory: When two people have an amatory relationship with one another, they are physically affectionate with and/or in love with one another.

ambivalent
ambivalent: If you are ambivalent about something, you are uncertain whether you like it or what you should do about it.

ambulatory
ambulatory: Ambulatory activities involve walking or moving around.

amenable
amenable: If you are amenable to doing something, you willingly accept it without arguing.

amity
amity: Amity is a peaceful friendship between two parties, particularly between two countries.

anachronism
anachronism: An anachronism is something that is out of place because it is set in the wrong time period.

analogous
analogous: If one thing is analogous to another, a comparison can be made between the two because they are similar in some way.

anarchy
anarchy: A state of anarchy occurs when there is no organization or order in a nation or country, especially when no effective government exists.

anomaly
anomaly: If something is an anomaly, it is different from what is usual or expected; hence, it is highly noticeable.

antagonist
antagonist: Your antagonist is an opponent in a competition or battle.

apparition
apparition: An apparition is something that unexpectedly appears that is either a ghost or ghostly.

approbation
approbation: Approbation is official praise or approval of something.

arcane
arcane: Something that is arcane is mysterious and secret, known and understood by only a few people.

archetype
archetype: An archetype is a perfect or typical example of something because it has the most important qualities that belong to that type of thing; it can also describe essential qualities common to a particular class of things.

archipelago
archipelago: An archipelago is a large group of islands, sometimes highly scattered.

astute
astute: When you describe someone as astute, you think they quickly understand situations or behavior and use it to their advantage.

attrition
attrition: Attrition is the process of gradually decreasing the strength of something—such as an army or workforce—by continually weakening it or decreasing it in size.

auspices
auspices: When you are under another person's auspices, you are being guided and protected by them.

autocratic
autocratic: An autocratic person rules with complete power; consequently, they make decisions and give orders to people without asking them for their opinion or advice.

autonomous
autonomous: An autonomous person makes their own decisions without being influenced by anyone else; an autonomous country or organization is independent and has the power to govern itself.

avarice
avarice: Avarice is the extremely strong desire to have a lot of money and possessions.

awry
awry: If something goes awry, it does not happen in the way that was planned.

banter
banter: Banter is friendly conversation during which people make friendly jokes and laugh at—and with—one another.

bedeck
bedeck: When you bedeck something, you decorate it in a showy way.

bedevil
bedevil: When something bedevils you, it causes you a lot of problems and difficulties over a period of time.

beget
beget: When you beget something, you cause it to happen or create it.

beguile
beguile: If someone beguiles you, you are charmed by and attracted to them, which may make it easy for them to trick or deceive you as well.

behest
behest: If something is done at someone's behest, it is done because they urgently ask for it or authoritatively order it to happen.

beholden
beholden: If you are beholden to someone, you are in their debt; therefore, you have a duty towards them because they have helped you in some way.

bellicose
bellicose: If you are bellicose, you behave in an aggressive way and are likely to start an argument or fight.

bemused
bemused: If you are bemused, you are puzzled and confused; hence, you are lost or absorbed in puzzling thought.

benefaction
benefaction: A benefaction is a charitable contribution of money or assistance that someone gives to a person or organization.

berate
berate: When you berate someone, you speak to them angrily because they have done something wrong.

bigotry
bigotry: Bigotry is the expression of strong and unreasonable opinions without accepting or tolerating opposing views.

cadence
cadence: A cadence is a repeated pattern of movement or sound, such as the way someone's voice rises and falls when reading something out loud.

caliber
caliber: The caliber of a person is the level or quality of their ability, intelligence, and other talents.

callous
callous: A callous person's attitude is cruel, uncaring, and shows no concern for others whatsoever.

candor
candor: Candor is the quality of being honest and open in speech or action.

catalyst
catalyst: A catalyst is an agent that enacts change, such as speeding up a chemical reaction or causing an event to occur.

caustic
caustic: A caustic remark is unkind, critical, cruel, and mocking.

cavalier
cavalier: A cavalier person does not seem to care about rules, principles, or other people's feelings, no matter how dire or serious a situation may be.

censure
censure: Censure is written or verbal disapproval and harsh criticism of something that someone has done.

cessation
cessation: The cessation of a process is a stop or halt to it.

chastise
chastise: If you chastise someone, you speak to them angrily or punish them for doing something wrong.

chivalrous
chivalrous: A chivalrous man behaves in a polite, kind, generous, and honorable way, especially towards women.

circuitous
circuitous: A circuitous route, journey, or piece of writing is long and complicated rather than simple and direct.

circumscribe
circumscribe: If one's powers or rights are circumscribed, they are limited or restricted.

clarion
clarion: A clarion call is a stirring, emotional, and strong appeal to people to take action on something.

clemency
clemency: If someone is granted clemency, they are punished less severely than they could have been—they have been shown mercy.

coalesce
coalesce: If two or more things coalesce, they come together to form a single larger unit.

commune
commune: If you commune with something, you communicate without using words because you feel especially close to or in tune with it.

compendium
compendium: A compendium is a detailed collection of information on a particular or specific subject, usually in a book.

compliant
compliant: A compliant person is readily willing to do what is asked of them.

concerted
concerted: A concerted effort is intensive and determined work that is performed by two people or more to complete a task.

confluence
confluence: A confluence is a situation where two or more things meet or flow together at a single point or area—usually where two streams join together.

confound
confound: If something confounds you, it makes you feel surprised and confused, often because it does not meet your predefined expectations.

congenital
congenital: A congenital condition is something someone is born with, such as a character trait or physical state.

connive
connive: If one person connives with another, they secretly plan to achieve something of mutual benefit, usually a thing that is illegal or immoral.

connote
connote: If a word or behavior connotes something, it suggests an additional idea or emotion that is not part of its original literal meaning.

consign
consign: When you consign someone into another's care, you sign them over or entrust them to that person's protection.

consternation
consternation: Consternation is the feeling of anxiety or fear, sometimes paralyzing in its effect, and often caused by something unexpected that has happened.

consummate
consummate: If someone shows consummate skill at doing something, that person's skill is very great or almost perfect in every way.

contagion
contagion: A contagion is a disease—or the transmission of that disease—that is easily spread from one person to another through touch or the air.

contemptible
contemptible: A contemptible act is shameful, disgraceful, and worthy of scorn.

contiguous
contiguous: Contiguous things are in contact with or near each other; contiguous events happen one right after the other without a break.

contravene
contravene: To contravene a law, rule, or agreement is to do something that is not allowed or is forbidden by that law, rule, or agreement.

convoluted
convoluted: Something convoluted, such as a difficult concept or procedure, is complex and takes many twists and turns.

corporeal
corporeal: The word corporeal refers to the physical or material world rather than the spiritual; it also means characteristic of the body rather than the mind or feelings.

corroborate
corroborate: When you corroborate something that has been said or reported, you give information or evidence that further supports it.

credence
credence: Credence is the mental act of believing or accepting that something is true.

crestfallen
crestfallen: Someone who is crestfallen is severely disappointed, sad, or depressed.

crux
crux: The crux of a problem or argument is the most important or difficult part of it that affects everything else.

culinary
culinary: Someone who has excellent culinary skills is able to cook food very well.

curative
curative: Something that has curative properties can be used for curing people's illnesses.

curio
curio: A curio is an object that is very old or unusual; thus, it is viewed as interesting.

cursory
cursory: A cursory examination or reading of something is very quick, incomplete, and does not pay close attention to detail.

deadlock
deadlock: When a situation, such as an argument or election, is in a deadlock, the participants have come to a complete stop because neither side can proceed further.

decry
decry: To decry something is to speak against it and find fault with it.

degenerate
degenerate: A degenerate person is immoral, wicked, or corrupt.

delusive
delusive: Something that is delusive deceives you by giving a false belief about yourself or the situation you are in.

demeanor
demeanor: Your demeanor is the way you look and behave, which gives people insight into your character and feelings.

demented
demented: A demented person is not in their right mind; hence, they are crazy, insane, and highly irrational.

demure
demure: If you describe someone, usually a young woman, as demure, you mean that she is quiet, shy, and always behaves modestly.

denigrate
denigrate: If you denigrate something, you criticize or speak ill of it in a way that shows you think it has little to no value at all.

deportment
deportment: Your deportment is the way you behave, walk, and stand in public.

deprecate
deprecate: If you deprecate something, you disapprove of it strongly.

derelict
derelict: Something, such as a building, is derelict if it is empty, not used, and in bad condition or disrepair.

derision
derision: If you treat someone with derision, you mock or make fun of them because you think they are stupid, unimportant, or useless.

despondent
despondent: If you are despondent, you are extremely unhappy because you are in an unpleasant situation that you do not think will improve.

destitute
destitute: Someone who is destitute lives in extreme poverty and thus lacks the basic necessities of life.

diabolical
diabolical: If you say something is diabolical, you are emphasizing that it is evil, cruel, or very bad.

dictum
dictum: A dictum is a saying that people often repeat because it says something interesting or wise about a subject.

digress
digress: When you digress while speaking or writing, you temporarily depart or stray from the central focus or topic at hand.

dilapidated
dilapidated: A dilapidated building, vehicle, etc. is old, broken-down, and in very bad condition.

disconcert
disconcert: If something disconcerts you, it makes you feel anxious, worried, or confused.

discordant
discordant: A situation or thing that is discordant does not fit in with other things; therefore, it is disagreeable, strange, or unpleasant.

disincentive
disincentive: A disincentive to do something does not encourage you to do that thing; rather, it restrains and hinders you from doing it.

disparate
disparate: Things that are disparate are clearly different from each other and belong to different groups or classes.

disparity
disparity: When there is a disparity between two things, they are not of equal status; therefore, they are different or unlike in some way.

dissident
dissident: A dissident is someone who disagrees publicly with a government, especially in a country where this is not allowed.

dissolution
dissolution: Dissolution is the breaking up or official end of a group, such as a couple or institution; it can also be the act of separating something into smaller components.

diurnal
diurnal: Something that is diurnal happens on a daily basis.

divest
divest: If you divest someone of power, rights, or authority, you take those things away from them.

docile
docile: An animal or person that is docile is not aggressive; rather, they are well-behaved, quiet, and easy to control.

domicile
domicile: Your domicile is the place where you live or your home.

dupe
dupe: When you dupe another person, you trick them into believing something that is not true.

dwindle
dwindle: When an amount of something dwindles, it becomes less and less over time.

ebullient
ebullient: Someone who is ebullient is filled with enthusiasm, very happy, and extremely excited about something.

ecumenical
ecumenical: Ecumenical activities and ideas encourage different religions or congregations to work and worship together in order to unite them in friendship.

effigy
effigy: An effigy is a crude likeness or statue of a person, often of someone who is disliked.

elicit
elicit: When you elicit a response from someone, you draw it forth or cause it to happen by something you say or do.

elocution
elocution: Someone's elocution is their artistic manner of speaking in public, including both the delivery of their voice and gestures.

elucidate
elucidate: If you elucidate something, you make it easier to understand by giving more relevant information.

emanate
emanate: Things that emanate come forth from or are emitted by a source.

embankment
embankment: An embankment is a built-up bank or ridge made of earth or stone that supports a road or holds back water.

embellish
embellish: If you embellish something, you make it more beautiful by decorating it.

embodiment
embodiment: An embodiment of something, such as a quality or idea, is a visible representation or concrete expression of it.

emissary
emissary: An emissary is someone who acts as a representative from one government or leader to another.

empirical
empirical: Empirical evidence or study is based on real experience or scientific experiments rather than on unproven theories.

emulate
emulate: If you emulate someone, you try to behave the same way they do because you admire them a great deal.

enclave
enclave: An enclave is a small area within a larger area of a city or country in which people of a different nationality or culture live.

encroachment
encroachment: When you are guilty of encroachment, you intrude upon or invade another person's private space.

encumber
encumber: If something encumbers you, it makes it difficult for you to move freely or do what you want.

endemic
endemic: Something that is endemic to a place, such as a disease or life form, is very frequently found in and restricted to that area or region.

entourage
entourage: An entourage is a group of assistants, servants, and other people who tag along with an important person.

enunciate
enunciate: When you enunciate, you speak or state something clearly so that you can be easily understood.

envisage
envisage: When you envisage something, you imagine or consider its future possibility.

ephemeral
ephemeral: Something ephemeral, such as some insects or a sunset, lasts for only a short time or has a very short lifespan.

epitome
epitome: If you say that a person or thing is the epitome of something, you mean that they or it is the best possible example of that thing.

esoteric
esoteric: Something esoteric is known about or understood by very few people.

espouse
espouse: If you espouse an idea, principle, or belief, you support it wholeheartedly.

eulogy
eulogy: A eulogy is a speech or other piece of writing, often part of a funeral, in which someone or something is highly praised.

euphoria
euphoria: A state of euphoria is one of extreme happiness or overwhelming joy.

evocation
evocation: An evocation of something creates or summons a clear mental image or impression of it through words, pictures, or music.

exalt
exalt: When you exalt another person, you either praise them highly or promote them to a higher position in an organization.

exasperate
exasperate: When you exasperate another person, you annoy or anger them a great deal because you keep on doing something that is highly irritating.

exonerate
exonerate: When someone is exonerated from guilt, a task, or a responsibility, they are set free or excused from it.

exorbitant
exorbitant: An exorbitant price or fee is much higher than what it should be or what is considered reasonable.

expatriate
expatriate: An expatriate has been driven or exiled from their native land, so they are forced to live in another country; a person can also willingly become an expatriate.

expedient
expedient: A thing or action that is expedient is useful, advantageous, or appropriate to get something accomplished.

expound
expound: When you expound something, you explain it in great detail, often taking a while to do so.

extricate
extricate: When you extricate yourself from a difficult or unpleasant situation, you manage to escape it.

exude
exude: If you exude a quality or feeling, people easily notice that you have a large quantity of it because it flows from you; if a smell or liquid exudes from something, it flows steadily and slowly from it.

exult
exult: If you exult, you show great pleasure and excitement, especially about something you have achieved.

facade
facade: A facade is a false outward appearance or way of behaving that hides what someone or something is really like.

facile
facile: If you criticize someone's arguments as being facile, you consider their ideas simplistic and not well thought through.

fathom
fathom: If you fathom something complicated or mysterious, you are able to understand it.

felicity
felicity: If you are experiencing felicity about something, you are very happy about it.

fiduciary
fiduciary: A fiduciary relationship arises when one individual has the trust and confidence of another, such as a financial client; subsequently, that trustworthy person is entrusted with the management or protection of the client's money.

filial
filial: The adjective filial is used to describe relationships or feelings that exist between children and their parents.

flagrant
flagrant: An action that is flagrant shows that someone does not care if they obviously break the rules or highly offend people.

fleeting
fleeting: A fleeting moment lasts but a short time before it fades away.

forlorn
forlorn: A forlorn person is lonely because they have been abandoned; a forlorn home has been deserted.

forte
forte: If something is your forte, you are very good at it or know a lot about it.

fortitude
fortitude: Fortitude is the determination or lasting courage to endure hardship or difficulty over an extended period of time.

fruition
fruition: If something, such as an idea or plan, comes to fruition, it produces the result you wanted to achieve from it.

fugue
fugue: A fugue is a piece of classical music that starts with a simple thematic melody; subsequently, it is developed into a complicated pattern by repeating that melody with different instruments, voices, or keys.

gaunt
gaunt: A gaunt person is extremely thin, often due to an extended illness or a lack of food over a long period of time.

gentry
gentry: The gentry are the elite or upper-class members of a society.

gestation
gestation: Gestation is the process by which a new idea, plan, or piece of work develops in your mind.

gradation
gradation: A gradation is a series of successive small differences or changes in something that add up to an overall major change; this word can also refer to a degree or step in that series of changes.

granule
granule: A granule is a small particle or tiny grain of something.

hallowed
hallowed: Something that is hallowed is respected and admired, usually because it is holy or important in some way.

harrowing
harrowing: A harrowing experience is highly distressing, terrifying, or very disturbing.

hierarchy
hierarchy: A hierarchy is a system of organization in a society, company, or other group in which people are divided into different ranks or levels of importance.

hindsight
hindsight: Hindsight is the looking back upon an event to see what should have been done instead of what was done.

hyperbole
hyperbole: Hyperbole is a way of emphasizing something that makes it sound much more impressive or much worse than it actually is.

idiosyncratic
idiosyncratic: Idiosyncratic tendencies, behavior, or habits are unusual and strange.

imbibe
imbibe: If you imbibe ideas, values, or qualities, you absorb them into your mind.

imminent
imminent: An imminent event, especially an event that is unpleasant, is almost certain to happen within the very near future.

immutable
immutable: Something that is immutable is always the same and cannot be changed.

impasse
impasse: An impasse is a difficult situation in which progress is not possible, usually because none of the people involved are willing to agree.

impassive
impassive: If someone is impassive, they are not showing any emotion.

impeccable
impeccable: If you describe someone's appearance or behavior as impeccable, you mean that it is perfect and therefore impossible to criticize.

imperceptible
imperceptible: Something that is imperceptible is either impossible—or very difficult—to notice or perceive.

impertinent
impertinent: If someone behaves in an impertinent way, they behave rudely and disrespectfully.

impervious
impervious: If you are impervious to things, such as someone's actions or words, you are not affected by them or do not notice them.

impinge
impinge: If something impinges on you, it affects you in some negative way.

implacable
implacable: If someone is implacable, they very stubbornly react to situations or the opinions of others because of strong feelings that make them unwilling to change their mind.

impregnable
impregnable: An impregnable fortress or castle is very difficult to defeat or overcome; an opinion or argument of that same quality is almost impossible to successfully change or challenge.

impudence
impudence: If someone demonstrates impudence, they behave in a very rude or disrespectful way.

impunity
impunity: If you say that someone does something with impunity, you dislike the fact that they are not being punished for doing something illegal.

impute
impute: If you impute something, such as blame or a crime, to somebody, you say (usually unfairly) that that person is responsible for it.

incendiary
incendiary: An incendiary device causes objects to catch on fire; incendiary comments can cause riots to flare up.

inception
inception: An inception of something is its beginning or start.

incessant
incessant: Something that is incessant continues on for a long time without stopping.

incipient
incipient: An incipient situation or quality is just beginning to appear or develop.

incisive
incisive: If an idea or thought is incisive, it is expressed in a penetrating and knowledgeable manner that is clear and brief; additionally, it can demonstrate impressive understanding of related ideas or thoughts.

incommunicado
incommunicado: If you are incommunicado, you are out of touch, unable to be communicated with, or in an isolated situation.

incongruous
incongruous: Something that is incongruous is strange when considered along with its group because it seems very different from the other things in its group.

inconsolable
inconsolable: Someone who is inconsolable has been so devastated by a terrible event that no one can help them feel better about it.

inconspicuous
inconspicuous: Something that is inconspicuous does not attract attention and is not easily seen or noticed because it is small or ordinary.

incorrigible
incorrigible: Someone who is incorrigible has bad habits or does bad things and is unlikely to ever change; this word is often used in a humorous way.

incursion
incursion: An incursion is an unpleasant intrusion, such as a sudden hostile attack or a land being flooded.

indiscreet
indiscreet: Someone who is indiscreet shows lack of judgment, especially because they say or do things in public that should only be said or done privately—if at all.

indomitable
indomitable: An indomitable foe cannot be beaten.

inept
inept: Someone who is inept is unable or unsuitable to do a job; hence, they are unfit for it.

inestimable
inestimable: Something that has inestimable value or benefit has so much of it that it cannot be calculated.

infallible
infallible: If something is infallible, it is never wrong and so is incapable of making mistakes.

infinitesimal
infinitesimal: Something infinitesimal is so extremely small or minute that it is very hard to measure it.

infirmity
infirmity: A patient who is plagued by infirmity is weak in body or ill in health.

inflection
inflection: An inflection is a change or variation, such as in a person's voice or in the form a noun or verb takes.

infusion
infusion: An infusion is the introduction or pouring of one thing into another—such as new ideas brought into a workplace or poured purple dye spreading throughout a glass of water.

inimical
inimical: If someone is inimical, they are unfriendly and will likely cause you harm.

inimitable
inimitable: Someone, such as a performer or athlete, is inimitable when they are so good or unique in their talent that it is unlikely anyone else can be their equal.

iniquity
iniquity: Iniquity is an immoral act, wickedness, or evil.

innocuous
innocuous: Something innocuous is not likely to offend or harm anyone.

inopportune
inopportune: When something happens at an inopportune time it is inconvenient or not suitable.

inscrutable
inscrutable: Something inscrutable is very hard to figure out, discover, or understand what it is all about.

insidious
insidious: Something that is insidious is dangerous because it seems harmless or not important; nevertheless, over time it gradually develops the capacity to cause harm and damage.

insipid
insipid: Something insipid is dull, boring, and has no interesting features; for example, insipid food has no taste or little flavor.

insular
insular: If someone is insular, they are either unwilling to meet anyone outside their own small group or they are not interested in learning new ideas.

insurrection
insurrection: An insurrection is a rebellion or open uprising against an established form of government.

intelligentsia
intelligentsia: The intelligentsia of a society are those individuals who are the most highly educated.

interject
interject: To interject is to insert a comment during a conversation that interrupts its flow.

intersperse
intersperse: When you intersperse things, you distribute or scatter them among other things, sometimes at different intervals.

intractable
intractable: Intractable problems, situations, or people are very difficult or impossible to deal with.

intrepid
intrepid: An intrepid person is willing to do dangerous things or go to dangerous places because they are brave.

intrinsic
intrinsic: An intrinsic characteristic of something is the basic and essential feature that makes it what it is.

introspective
introspective: If someone is introspective, they spend a lot of time examining their own feelings, thoughts, or ideas.

intrusive
intrusive: An intrusive person interrupts, interferes, or forces themself in where they are not welcome or permitted to be.

inundate
inundate: If you are inundated with something, you have so much of it that you cannot easily deal with it; likewise, if too much rain inundates an area, it causes flooding.

irreconcilable
irreconcilable: Two irreconcilable opinions or points of view are so opposed to each other that it is not possible to accept both of them or reach a settlement between them.

itinerant
itinerant: When someone is described as itinerant, they are characterized by traveling or moving about from place to place.

jaded
jaded: Someone who is jaded has become bored with or weary of the world because they have had too much experience with it.

languid
languid: A languid person is slow, relaxed, and shows little energy or interest in doing anything.

lethargic
lethargic: If you are lethargic, you are tired, lack energy, and are unwilling to exert effort.

lexicon
lexicon: The lexicon of a particular subject or language is all the words, phrases, and terms associated with it.

loathsome
loathsome: Something loathsome is offensive, disgusting, and brings about intense dislike.

lucid
lucid: If someone is lucid, they are able to understand things and think clearly; this adjective also describes writing or speech that is crystal clear and easy to understand.

malevolent
malevolent: A malevolent person or thing is evil due to deliberate attempts to cause harm.

malign
malign: If you malign someone, you say unpleasant things about them to damage their reputation.

matriarch
matriarch: A matriarch is an older and powerful woman who controls a family, community, or other social group.

meander
meander: When you meander, you either wander about with no particular goal or follow a path that twists and turns a great deal.

meritorious
meritorious: Someone who is meritorious is worthy of receiving recognition or is praiseworthy because of what they have accomplished.

microcosm
microcosm: A microcosm is a small group, place, or activity that has all the same qualities as a much larger one; therefore, it seems like a smaller version of it.

milieu
milieu: Your milieu includes the things and people that surround you and influence the way in which you behave.

misapprehension
misapprehension: A misapprehension is a misunderstanding or false impression that you are under, especially concerning another person's intentions towards you.

misconstrue
misconstrue: If you misconstrue something that has been said or something that happens, you understand or interpret it incorrectly.

mollify
mollify: If you mollify someone, you say or do something to make that person feel less angry or upset.

momentous
momentous: A momentous occurrence is very important, significant, or vital in some way.

monolith
monolith: An organization or system that is a monolith is extremely large; additionally, it is unwilling or very slow to change or adopt something new.

morose
morose: Someone who is morose is unhappy, bad-tempered, and unwilling to talk very much.

nomenclature
nomenclature: Nomenclature is a specialized form of vocabulary that classifies or organizes things in the sciences or the arts into a clear and usable system.

notional
notional: Something that is notional exists only as an idea or in theory—not in reality.

obsolescent
obsolescent: If something is obsolescent, it is slowly becoming no longer needed because something newer or more effective has been invented.

obtuse
obtuse: Someone is obtuse when they are slow to understand things; someone can choose to be obtuse when they deliberately do not try to figure things out.

obviate
obviate: To obviate a problem is to eliminate it or do something that makes solving the problem unnecessary.

omnipresent
omnipresent: Something that is omnipresent appears to be everywhere at the same time or is ever-present.

onerous
onerous: A task or responsibility is onerous if you dislike having to do it because it is difficult or tiring.

opine
opine: To opine is to state your opinion on something.

opulent
opulent: Something that is opulent is very impressive, grand, and is made from expensive materials.

ostentatious
ostentatious: If you describe an action as ostentatious, you think it is an extreme and exaggerated way of impressing people.

pallid
pallid: If someone is pallid, they look very pale in an unattractive and unhealthy way.

palpable
palpable: If a mood or feeling is palpable, it is so strong and intense that it is easily noticed and is almost able to be physically felt.

pandemic
pandemic: A pandemic disease is a far-reaching epidemic that affects people in a very wide geographic area.

paragon
paragon: A paragon is an example of a thing or person at its or their very best.

parenthetical
parenthetical: A parenthetical remark further explains or qualifies information.

parry
parry: To parry is to ward something off or deflect it.

pastoral
pastoral: A pastoral environment is rural, peaceful, simple, and natural.

pathogen
pathogen: A pathogen is an organism or infectious agent—such as a bacterium or virus—that causes disease.

pathological
pathological: If you have a pathological condition, you are extreme or unreasonable in something that you do.

pecuniary
pecuniary: Pecuniary means relating to or concerning money.

pedagogy
pedagogy: The art of pedagogy is the methods used by a teacher to teach a subject.

permeate
permeate: When a substance permeates something, it enters into all parts of it.

pernicious
pernicious: Something that is pernicious is very harmful or evil, often in a way that is hidden or not quickly noticed.

perpetrate
perpetrate: If you perpetrate something, you commit a crime or do some other bad thing for which you are responsible.

personify
personify: When you personify something, such as a quality, you are the perfect example of it.

peruse
peruse: If you peruse some written text, you read it over carefully.

petulant
petulant: A petulant person behaves in an unreasonable and childish way, especially because they cannot get their own way or what they want.

pique
pique: When you are piqued by something, either your curiosity is aroused by it or you feel resentment or anger towards it.

pithy
pithy: A pithy statement or piece of writing is brief but intelligent; it is also precise and to the point.

pittance
pittance: If you say that you've received a pittance, you mean that you received a small amount of something—and you know that you deserved more.

plagiarism
plagiarism: Plagiarism is the copying of another person's work, ideas, or words and pretending that you created or thought of them.

plummet
plummet: If something plummets, it falls down from a high position very quickly; for example, a piano can plummet from a window, and a stock value can plummet during a market crash.

plunder
plunder: When you plunder, you forcefully take or rob others of their possessions, usually during times of war, natural disaster, or other unrest.

poignant
poignant: A poignant experience affects your feelings greatly in a painful or deeply emotional way, often causing sadness or pity.

polarization
polarization: Polarization between two groups is a division or separation caused by a difference in opinion or conflicting views.

pompous
pompous: If you are pompous, you think that you are better than other people; therefore, you tend to show off and be highly egocentric.

ponderous
ponderous: Ponderous writing or speech is boring, highly serious, and seems very long and wordy; it definitely lacks both grace and style.

potable
potable: Potable water is clean and safe to drink.

precarious
precarious: A precarious situation or state can very quickly become dangerous without warning.

precept
precept: A precept is a rule or principle that teaches correct behavior.

precipitous
precipitous: A precipitous cliff or drop is very steep or falls sharply.

precocious
precocious: A precocious child shows advanced intelligence or skill at an unusually young age.

preponderance
preponderance: A preponderance of things of a particular type in a group means that there are more of that type than of any other.

prerogative
prerogative: Your prerogative is your right or privilege to do something.

presumptuous
presumptuous: When you are presumptuous, you act improperly, rudely, or without respect, especially while attempting to do something that is not socially acceptable or that you are not qualified to do.

primeval
primeval: Something primeval is ancient or belonging to the original development of something.

primordial
primordial: The adjective primordial is used to describe things that existed close to the formation of Earth or close to the origin or development of something.

profundity
profundity: When someone exhibits profundity, they display great intellectual depth and understanding; profundity can also be the depth or complexity of something.

progeny
progeny: Progeny are children or descendants.

propagate
propagate: When things propagate, such as plants, animals, or ideas, they reproduce or generate greater numbers, causing them to spread.

propensity
propensity: A propensity is a natural tendency towards a particular behavior.

propitious
propitious: Something that is propitious shows favorable conditions.

proponent
proponent: A proponent is a supporter or backer of something, such as a cause or other endeavor.

protagonist
protagonist: A protagonist is the main character in a play, novel, or real event such as a battle or struggle.

protege
protege: A protege is a promising young person who has been taught, guided, and helped over a period of time by an older and more experienced person.

protrude
protrude: Something that protrudes is sticking or pushing outward from something else.

provincial
provincial: A provincial outlook is narrow-minded and unsophisticated, limited to the opinions of a relatively local area.

provisional
provisional: A provisional measure is temporary or conditional until more permanent action is taken.

punitive
punitive: A punitive action is intended to punish someone.

quorum
quorum: A quorum is the smallest number of people in a group, usually just over fifty percent, that is needed to make decisions legally.

rambunctious
rambunctious: Rambunctious conduct is wild, unruly, very active, and sometimes hard to control.

rancid
rancid: Something rancid is way past fresh; in fact, it is decomposing quickly and has a bad taste or smell.

raucous
raucous: A raucous sound is unpleasantly loud, harsh, and noisy.

recant
recant: If you recant, you publicly announce that your once firmly held beliefs or statements were wrong and that you no longer agree with them.

reciprocate
reciprocate: If you reciprocate, you give something to someone because they have given something similar to you.

recluse
recluse: A recluse is someone who chooses to live alone and deliberately avoids other people.

recompense
recompense: When you offer recompense to someone, you give them something, usually money, for the trouble or loss that you have caused them or as payment for their help.

recrimination
recrimination: A recrimination is a retaliatory accusation you make against someone who has accused you of something first.

redress
redress: If you redress a complaint or a bad situation, you correct or improve it for the person who has been wronged, usually by paying them money or offering an apology.

reiterate
reiterate: When you reiterate what you've just said, you repeat it or say it again.

rejuvenate
rejuvenate: To rejuvenate someone is to make that person feel young and strong again; to rejuvenate something is to make it like new once more.

relegate
relegate: You relegate someone or something if you give that person or thing a less important position than before.

remuneration
remuneration: Someone's remuneration is the payment or other rewards they receive for work completed, goods provided, or services rendered.

renounce
renounce: To renounce something, such as a position or practice, is to let go of it or reject it.

replete
replete: Stores that are replete with goods to sell are well-stocked and completely supplied to satisfy many customers.

repose
repose: If you are in a state of repose, your mind is at peace or your body is at rest.

reprieve
reprieve: A reprieve is a temporary relief from or cancellation of a punishment; it can also be a relief from something, such as pain or trouble of some kind.

reprimand
reprimand: When you are given a reprimand, you are scolded, blamed, or given a talking-to by someone for something wrong that you did.

reprisal
reprisal: A reprisal is something violent or harmful that you do to punish someone for something bad or unpleasant that they did to you.

requiem
requiem: A requiem is a piece of funeral music written for the dead.

residual
residual: Something that is residual is the part that still stays or remains after the main part is taken away.

resonate
resonate: If you say that something, such as an event or a message, resonates with you, you mean that it has an emotional effect or a special meaning for you that is significant.

resurgence
resurgence: A resurgence is a rising again or comeback of something.

retrograde
retrograde: A retrograde action causes a return to a condition or situation that is worse instead of better than the present one.

retrospect
retrospect: When you consider something in retrospect, you look back on or think about what happened in the past with the advantage of knowing more now than you did then.

revile
revile: If something is reviled, it is intensely hated and criticized.

revulsion
revulsion: When you experience revulsion, you feel a great deal of disgust or extreme dislike for something.

ruse
ruse: A ruse is a clever trick or deception used to fool someone.

salient
salient: The salient qualities of an issue or feature are those that are most important and noticeable.

sanguine
sanguine: If you are sanguine about a situation, especially a difficult one, you are confident and cheerful that everything will work out the way you want it to.

schism
schism: A schism causes a group or organization to divide into two groups as a result of differences in their aims and beliefs.

sedition
sedition: Sedition is the act of encouraging people to disobey and oppose the government currently in power.

semblance
semblance: A semblance is an outward appearance of what is wanted or expected but is not exactly as hoped for.

skirmish
skirmish: A skirmish is a minor battle between small army units; it can also be a fight or argument between individuals.

sojourn
sojourn: To sojourn is to stay at a place that is not your home for a short amount of time.

soliloquy
soliloquy: A soliloquy is the act of speaking by a single person, usually an actor in the theater.

sonorous
sonorous: A sonorous sound is pleasantly full, strong, and rich.

sporadic
sporadic: Sporadic occurrences happen from time to time but not at constant or regular intervals.

stalwart
stalwart: If you are stalwart, you are dependable, sturdy, and firm in what you do or promise.

stasis
stasis: Stasis is a state of little change over a long period of time or a condition of inactivity caused by an equal balance of opposing forces.

stifle
stifle: When you stifle someone's creativity or inner drive, you prevent it from being expressed.

stipulate
stipulate: When you stipulate terms, you demand or specify certain things that need to be met before you, in turn, will do something.

stricture
stricture: A stricture is a rule or condition that imposes restrictions or limits on what you can do.

stupor
stupor: Stupor is a state in which someone's mind and senses are dulled; consequently, they are unable to think clearly or act normally.

sublime
sublime: Something that is sublime is so strikingly beautiful that it seems not of this world; therefore, it affects the emotions deeply.

subservient
subservient: If you are subservient, you are too eager and willing to do what other people want and often put your own wishes aside.

sumptuous
sumptuous: Something that is sumptuous is impressive, grand, and very expensive.

supersede
supersede: When something supersedes another thing, it takes the place of or succeeds it.

supplant
supplant: To supplant someone is to replace them with someone else, usually because the latter is more powerful or better in some way.

surmise
surmise: If you surmise why something has occurred, you make a guess, offer a possibility, or have a theory about it.

surmount
surmount: If you surmount a problem or difficulty, you get the better of it by conquering or overcoming it.

surrogate
surrogate: A surrogate is someone who temporarily takes the place of another person, usually acting as a representative because that person is not available to or cannot carry out a task.

symposium
symposium: A symposium is a formal meeting at which several experts or specialists deliver short talks or discuss a particular subject.

synchronous
synchronous: Two acts that are synchronous occur at the same time.

synergy
synergy: Synergy is the extra energy or additional effectiveness gained when two groups or organizations combine their efforts instead of working separately.

tacit
tacit: A tacit agreement between two people is understood without having to use words to express it.

tactile
tactile: Something that is tactile can be physically touched.

tangential
tangential: A tangential point in an argument merely touches upon something that is not really relevant to the conversation at hand; rather, it is a minor or unimportant point.

tangible
tangible: Something that is tangible is able to be touched and thus is considered real.

taxonomy
taxonomy: Taxonomy is the science of classifying plants and animals into an organized system.

tedium
tedium: If you are suffering from tedium, you are bored.

tempestuous
tempestuous: A tempestuous storm, temper, or crowd is violent, wild, and in an uproar.

temporal
temporal: Something that is temporal deals with the present and somewhat brief time of this world.

tenet
tenet: A tenet is a belief held by a group, organization, or person.

tenuous
tenuous: Something tenuous is thin, weak, and unconvincing.

timorous
timorous: To be timorous is to be fearful.

torrid
torrid: The adjective torrid can refer to weather that is very hot and dry; it can also refer to earth that has been baked or scorched by such weather.

tortuous
tortuous: Something that is tortuous, such as a piece of writing, is long and complicated with many twists and turns in direction; a tortuous argument can be deceitful because it twists or turns the truth.

transfuse
transfuse: When something is transfused to another thing, it is given, put, or imparted to it; for example, you can transfuse blood or a love of reading from one person to another.

transmute
transmute: Something transmutes when it changes from one form or state into another.

travail
travail: You refer to a situation or work as travail if it's very tiring, very unpleasant, or very difficult.

trepidation
trepidation: Trepidation is fear or uneasiness about something that is going to happen.

tribulation
tribulation: Severe problems, suffering, or difficulties experienced in a particular situation are all examples of tribulations.

trite
trite: A trite remark or idea is so overused that it is no longer interesting or novel.

truncate
truncate: If you truncate something, you make it shorter or quicker by removing or cutting off part of it.

tumultuous
tumultuous: A tumultuous event or period of time is filled with great excitement, confusion, or violence; a tumultuous reaction to something is likewise very loud and noisy because people are happy and excited.

ulterior
ulterior: When you have an ulterior motive, you have a hidden reason for doing something.

ultimatum
ultimatum: An ultimatum is a final statement or offer on an issue; for example, the phrase "Do this, or you can forget it!" is an example of an ultimatum.

unassuming
unassuming: Someone who is unassuming is not boastful or arrogant; rather, they are modest or humble.

unbridled
unbridled: A feeling that is unbridled is enthusiastic and unlimited in its expression.

uncouth
uncouth: To act in an uncouth manner is to be awkward and unmannerly.

unfounded
unfounded: An unfounded claim is not based upon evidence; instead, it is unproven or groundless.

unkempt
unkempt: An unkempt person or thing is untidy and has not been kept neat.

unnerve
unnerve: If something unnerves you, it makes you upset or nervous; it can also make you lose your courage because it frightens you so much.

unobtrusive
unobtrusive: If someone acts in an unobtrusive way, their actions are not easily noticed and do not stand out in any way.

unparalleled
unparalleled: An unparalleled accomplishment has not been equaled by anyone or cannot be compared to anything that anyone else has ever done.

unrelenting
unrelenting: If you are unrelenting in your desire to do something, you stop at nothing until you've done it.

unsavory
unsavory: If you describe something as unsavory, you mean that it is unpleasant or morally unacceptable.

unwitting
unwitting: If you did something in an unwitting fashion, you didn't know that you were doing it; therefore, it was unintentional on your part.

vacuous
vacuous: Something that is vacuous is empty or blank, such as a mind or stare.

vanguard
vanguard: Something in the vanguard is in the leading spot of something, such as an army or institution.

vantage
vantage: A vantage is a position, condition, or place that contains a powerful benefit, favored spot, or helpful aid of some kind.

vaporous
vaporous: Something that is vaporous is not completely formed but foggy and misty; in the same vein, a vaporous idea is insubstantial and vague.

variegated
variegated: Something that is variegated has various tones or colors; it can also mean filled with variety.

veneer
veneer: A veneer is a thin layer, such as a thin sheet of expensive wood over a cheaper type of wood that gives a false appearance of higher quality; a person can also put forth a false front or veneer.

venerable
venerable: Venerable people command respect because they are old and wise.

verbiage
verbiage: Verbiage is an excessive use of words to convey something that could be expressed using fewer words; it can also be the manner or style in which someone uses words.

verbose
verbose: Something that is verbose, such as a speech or article, contains too many words.

verity
verity: The verity of something is the truth or reality of it.

vicarious
vicarious: A vicarious pleasure or feeling is experienced by watching or reading about another person's doing something rather than by doing it yourself.

vilify
vilify: If you vilify people, you write or say bad things about them in an attempt to make them unpopular.

vindictive
vindictive: If you are vindictive, you want to take revenge upon someone who has done something bad to you.

virtuoso
virtuoso: A virtuoso is someone who is very skillful at something, especially playing a musical instrument.

virulent
virulent: A virulent disease is very dangerous and spreads very quickly.

vivacious
vivacious: If someone is described as vivacious, they are lively and have a happy, lighthearted manner.

volition
volition: If you do something of your own volition, you choose to do it because you want to—not because you are forced to.

voluminous
voluminous: Something that is voluminous is long, large, or vast in size.

wane
wane: If something—such as power, influence, or feeling—wanes, it gradually becomes weaker or less important, often so much so that it eventually disappears.

wanton
wanton: A wanton action deliberately harms someone or damages something for no apparent or good reason.

wastrel
wastrel: A wastrel is a lazy person who wastes time and money.

watershed
watershed: A watershed is a crucial event or turning point in either the history of a nation or the life of an individual that brings about a significant change.

wayward
wayward: If you act in a wayward fashion, you are very headstrong, independent, disobedient, unpredictable, and practically unmanageable.

whimsical
whimsical: A whimsical idea or person is slightly strange, unusual, and amusing rather than serious and practical.

writ
writ: A writ is an official document that orders a person to do something.